Introduction (#3)
greenelab/knowledge-graph-review: content/02.introduction.md

## Introduction

> Knowledge graphs are a practical resource for a multitude of real world applications.

Reviewer: Give a few examples + refs.

> This resource utilizes graph theory to represent knowledge in the form of a graph.

Reviewer: If I understand "This resource" correctly, it says "Knowledge graphs utilize graph theory to represent knowledge in the form of a graph."

Not sure you need this sentence, but I do think the sentence afterwards defining a knowledge graph is helpful. Plus it is probably good to add some references to knowledge graphs here and give just a little bit of info about them. What does and what doesn't qualify?

Nodes represent entites and edges represent relational information between two entities (example shown in Figure {@fig:hetionet_schema}).

> Typically, knowledge graphs are constructed via manually curated databases, but there are approaches that utilize natural language processing techniques for construction.

Reviewer: Examples of how typical this is? Maybe by specifically referring to those that you reference that are construct one way vs specific references to those that are constructed the other way.

> For example, one can construct a text mining system to detect sentneces that indicate a protein-protein interactions [@doi:10.1016/j.knosys.2018.11.020].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, text mining systems can extract sentences that indicate protein-protein interactions [@doi:10.1016/j.knosys.2018.11.020].
```

After the sentences have been identified, they are incorporated as evidence for establishing an edge in a knowledge graph.

> Besides construction, knowledge graphs have been used in biomedical and non-biomedical applications (e.g. disease gene prioritization, social media mining, interpreting natural language, etc).

Reviewer: I would probably start with their utility. It looks like many of these things would be helpful in the first paragraph.

## Introduction

> Knowledge graphs are a practical resource for a multitude of real world applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knowledge graphs are a practical resource for many real world applications.
```

> For example, they have been used in social medial mining to classify nodes [@arxiv:1101.3291] or to create a recommendation system [@doi:10.1145/3184558.3186904].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They have been used in social medial mining to classify nodes [@arxiv:1101.3291] or to create a recommendation system [@doi:10.1145/3184558.3186904].
```

> This resource has been used to understand natural language via creating a question and answering system.

Reviewer: Which resource? It's not clear with this sentence.

> This kind of system interprets simple questions and uses relational information to provide answers [@arxiv:1404.4326; @doi:10.1145/3038912.3052675].

Reviewer: Is this the system that the previous sentence refers to? Maybe good to join the sentences, unless the previous sentence also refers to the one above it.

> In a biomedical setting these graphs have been used to prioritize genes relevant to disease [@pmid:21121028; @doi:10.1101/651000; @doi:10.1109/CIBCB.2019.8791472; @doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/bty559], perform drug repurposing [@doi:10.7554/eLife.26726] and identify drug target interactions [@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002574].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a biomedical setting these graphs have been used to prioritize genes relevant to disease [@pmid:21121028; @doi:10.1101/651000; @doi:10.1109/CIBCB.2019.8791472; @doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/bty559], perform drug repurposing [@doi:10.7554/eLife.26726] and identify drug-target interactions [@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002574].
```

Defining a knowledge graph is a difficult task because there are multiple conflicting definitions [@raw:KG_DEF].

> We define a knowledge graph as the following: a resource that acquires and integrates single or multiple sources of information into an abstract representation and applies logical reasoning to generate new knowledge [@raw:KG_DEF].

Reviewer: Does the knowledge graph itself have the logical reasoning bit?

Author: After significant amount of re-reading and searching, the answer is no. It doesn't *have* to have the logical reasoning bit. It just has to allow the opportunity for one to be applied. This [link](https://hackernoon.com/wtf-is-a-knowledge-graph-a16603a1a25f) help clear up that confusing paper. Will edit to take this finding into account.

Based on this definition resources like Hetionet [@doi:10.7554/eLife.26726] would be considered a knowledge graph.

> Hetionet integrates multiple sources of information into the form of a graph (example shown in Figure {@fig:hetionet_schema}).

Reviewer: As far as I know, hetionet itself does not "applies logical reasoning to generate new knowledge". Unless the argument is that metapaths are that.

This graph was used to derive novel information concerning unique drug treatments [@doi:10.7554/eLife.26726].

> Regular databases like Diseases [@doi:10.1016/j.ymeth.2014.11.020] and DrugBank [@doi:10.1093/nar/gkx1037] are not be considered knowledge graphs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do not consider databases like Diseases [@doi:10.1016/j.ymeth.2014.11.020] and DrugBank [@doi:10.1093/nar/gkx1037] to be knowledge graphs.
```

> These resources contain essential information, but do not implement a means to infer new information.

Reviewer: I'm not sure hetionet does either, though. Is there a difference between hetionet and rephetio?

> Typically, knowledge graphs are constructed via manually curated databases [@doi:10.7554/eLife.26726; 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002574; @doi:10.1038/s41467-017-00680-8; @doi:10.1186/s12859-016-1336-7;  @doi:10.1016/j.jbi.2011.11.017].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knowledge graphs are often constructed from manually curated databases [@doi:10.7554/eLife.26726; 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002574; @doi:10.1038/s41467-017-00680-8; @doi:10.1186/s12859-016-1336-7;  @doi:10.1016/j.jbi.2011.11.017].
```

> These sources provide previously established information that can be incorporated into a graph. 

Reviewer: How?

> Besides using curated databases, there are approaches that utilize natural language processing techniques for construction [@doi:10.1186/s12859-015-0549-5; @doi:10.1007/s10115-019-01351-4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Others have used natural language processing techniques to build knowledge graphs [@doi:10.1186/s12859-015-0549-5; @doi:10.1007/s10115-019-01351-4].
```

## Introduction

Knowledge graphs are a practical resource for many real world applications.
They have been used in social medial mining to classify nodes [@arxiv:1101.3291] or to create a recommendation system [@doi:10.1145/3184558.3186904].
Knowledge graphs have also been used to understand natural language via interpreting simple questions and using relational information to provide answers [@arxiv:1404.4326; @doi:10.1145/3038912.3052675].
In a biomedical setting these graphs have been used to prioritize genes relevant to disease [@pmid:21121028; @doi:10.1101/651000; @doi:10.1109/CIBCB.2019.8791472; @doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/bty559], perform drug repurposing [@doi:10.7554/eLife.26726] and identify drug-target interactions [@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002574].

> Defining a knowledge graph is a difficult task because there are multiple conflicting definitions [@raw:KG_DEF].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Despite their utility, precisely defining a knowledge graph is a difficult task because there are multiple conflicting definitions [@raw:KG_DEF].
```

This graph allows for the capacity to make semantic interpretation, continuously incorporate new information and uncover novel hidden knowledge through computational techniques and algorithms.
Based on this definition resources like Hetionet [@doi:10.7554/eLife.26726] would be considered a knowledge graph.
Hetionet integrates multiple sources of information into the form of a graph (example shown in Figure {@fig:hetionet_schema}) and was used to derive novel information concerning unique drug treatments [@doi:10.7554/eLife.26726].
We do not consider databases like DISEASES [@doi:10.1016/j.ymeth.2014.11.020] and DrugBank [@doi:10.1093/nar/gkx1037] to be knowledge graphs.
These resources contain essential information, but do not represent their data in graph form.

Knowledge graphs are often constructed from manually curated databases [@doi:10.7554/eLife.26726; 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002574; @doi:10.1038/s41467-017-00680-8; @doi:10.1186/s12859-016-1336-7;  @doi:10.1016/j.jbi.2011.11.017].
These sources provide previously established information that can be incorporated into a graph.

> Entities mentioned in these databases are represented as nodes while the type of database indicates the edge both entities share.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I don't think you need this. It seems not true in all cases. You could go into more detail here, but an intro seems like the wrong place to do that. I'd just remove it.

> For example, a graph using DISEASES [@doi:10.1016/j.ymeth.2014.11.020] as a resource would contain nodes that represent genes and diseases and edges between the nodes representing an association.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a graph using DISEASES [@doi:10.1016/j.ymeth.2014.11.020] as a resource would have genes and diseases as nodes, while edges would be added between nodes that have an association.
```

> This example contains a single type of relationship; however, there are databases that can infer multiple relationships.

Reviewer: I'm guessing from the context in the paragraph you mean contain instead of `infer`. It may be best to re-word the sentence to avoid using `contain` twice as well. You might even be able to use "databases with multiple...". I would have made this suggestion but I wasn't sure it would keep the meaning you wanted. If I'm misreading this and you do mean infer, then I'm confused by the context and you should also take my changes around this point with a grain of salt!
